### Operation 7: **Coagulation**:
The seventh ray of the Azoth points to the realm of the Queen and contains the symbol that stands for both the metal gold and the Sun. It is at the feminine level of soul where masculine consciousness is transformed, and this ray is usually colored lavender or purple, indicating the true royalty of the King. 


The final, seventh circle shows an androgynous youth emerging from an open grave, with the Latin word Lapidem, meaning “the Stone,” on the outer ring next to it. This is the operation of Coagulation, in which the fermented Child of the Conjunction is fused with the sublimated spiritual presence released during Distillation. The resurrection of the soul is accomplished by bringing together only the purest essences of one’s body and soul into the light of meditation. In other words, Coagulation incarnates and releases the "Ultima Materia" of the soul that the Emerald Tablet described as the “Glory of the Whole Universe.” Coagulation is the second or higher application of the elements Air and Earth in the tablet, and it results in a union of spirit with matter. At this stage, the alchemists felt they were working with the “new” or resurrected Salt.


Coagulation images include, a soaring eagle, brilliantly shining gold, scales of justice, an egg-shaped Stone, a heavenly-scented balsam, the elixir or ambrosia (food of immortality), wingless creatures borne away by winged creatures, the serpent and lion united, and the Phoenix (a mythical bird that repeatedly rose from the fire). The event is also indicated by the King and Queen breaking free of their chains to matter and appearing as naked Sol and Luna (personages with heads of the Sun and Moon respectively). One drawing of this stage shows a purple moon fallen to the earth with a red bird ascending into the sky. 


## The solidification of the purified essence into a new form or state.

Coagulation is the final stage of alchemy and involves the solidification of the purified essence into a new form or state. This stage can be seen as the culmination of the alchemical process, where the newly created substance has been refined, purified, and transformed. Coagulation is often associated with the physical manifestation of spiritual transformation, as the purified essence is made tangible and visible. This stage can involve the creation of a physical object, such as a crystal or stone, that represents the culmination of the alchemical process. Coagulation is also associated with the integration of the self, where the purified essence is integrated into the individual, resulting in a new state of being or consciousness. This stage is seen as the ultimate goal of the alchemical process, where the alchemist has achieved personal transformation and growth.


- <ins>**In the laboratory/Chemical Coagulation**</ins>: In alchemical metallurgy, the baser metals are transformed into incorruptible gold during this stage. In many alchemical experiments, Coagulation is the precipitation or sublimation of the purified Ferment from Distillation. Can refare to the Crystallization of a substance. Just as drops coalesce to form a river, coagulation is the final step in alchemy. Elements solidify into a new creation – the culmination of the alchemical masterpiece. It symbolizes achieving the highest potential, a reflection of the culmination of our own life's journey.


- <ins>**Psychologically Coagulation**</ins>: Is first sensed as a new confidence that is beyond all things, though many experience it as a Second Body of golden coalesced light, a permanent vehicle of consciousness that embodies the highest aspirations and evolution of mind. Coagulation incarnates and releases the Ultima Materia of the soul, the Astral Body, which the alchemists also referred to it as the Greater or Philosopher’s Stone. Using this magical Stone, the alchemists believed they could exist on all levels of reality. In society, it is the living wisdom in which everyone exists within the same light of evolved consciousness and knowledge of Truth.


- <ins>**Physiologically Coagulation**</ins>: Is marked by the release of the Elixir in the blood that rejuvenates the body into a perfect vessel of health. A brain ambrosia is said to be released through the interaction of light from the phallic-shaped pineal gland and matter from the vulva of the pituitary. This heavenly food or viaticum both nourishes and energizes the cells without any waste products being produced. These physiological and psychological processes create the Second Body, a body of solid light that emerges through the Crown or Gold Chakra. On the planetary level, Coagulation is a return to the Garden of Eden, this time on a higher level in tune with the divine mind.